---
layout: default
parent: FAQ
title: Input files
---

## Reads

Input data is either CLR unaligned subreads, straight from a Sequel I/II, or
unaligned CCS / HiFi reads, generated by
[CCS](https://github.com/PacificBiosciences/ccs); both in the PacBio enhanced
BAM format. If you want to demux RSII data, first use SMRT Link or bax2bam to
convert h5 to BAM. In addition, a `datastore.json` with one file entry, either a
SubreadSet or ConsensusReadSet, is also allowed. In addition, CCS / HiFi reads
input are also supported as FASTA or FASTQ, optionally gzipped.

## Barcodes

Barcodes are provided as a FASTA file, one entry per barcode sequence,
**no duplicate** sequences, only upper-case bases,
orientation agnostic (forward or reverse-complement, but **NOT** reversed).
Example:

    >bc1000
    CTCTACTTACTTACTG
    >bc1001
    GTCGTATCATCATGTA
    >bc1002
    AATATACCTATCATTA

Please name your barcodes with an alphabetic character prefix to avoid
later confusion of barcode name and index. Duplicate names or sequences
are not permitted.

**Can I have upper- and lower-case bases in my barcodes?**\
You can, but lima is case-insensitive and will convert them to upper case before
the alignment step.

# In- and output compatibility matrix:

For CLR data, only XML and BAM are valid in- and output file types.

For CCS / HiFi data, use following compatibility matrix:

| In/Out | XML | BAM | FASTQ | FASTA |
| ------ | :-: | :-: | :---: | :---: |
| XML    | YES | YES |  YES  |  YES  |
| BAM    | YES | YES |  YES  |  YES  |
| FASTQ  | no  | no  |  YES  |  YES  |
| FASTA  | no  | no  |  no   |  YES  |

You can use CCS FASTQ reads as input and FASTA as output, but not BAM as output.

Working example:

    $ lima <movie>.Q20.fastq Sequel_RSII_384_barcodes_v1.fasta <output>.fastq

Failing example:

    $ lima <movie>.Q20.fastq Sequel_RSII_384_barcodes_v1.fasta <output>.bam
    FATAL -|- Unsupported combination of FASTQ input and BAM output.
